Enable the use of GCP Stackdriver (#6984)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/deploying-to-google-cloud.adoc

////
This guide is maintained in the main Quarkus repository
and pull requests should be submitted there:
https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/tree/master/docs/src/main/asciidoc
////
= Quarkus - Deploying on Google cloud platform

include::./attributes.adoc[]

This guide covers:

> * Connecting to a CloudSQL postgresql instance with quarkus-agroal and service account using CloudRun

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Connecting to a CloudSQL PostgreSQL instance with quarkus-agroal and service account using CloudRun
```
Maybe let's not use bullets for only one item?

== Prerequisites

For this guide you need:

* roughly 1 hour
* having access to an Google cloud platform project with owner rights.

> This guide will take as input an application developed in the link:datasource.adoc[datasource guide].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will take as input an application developed in the link:datasource[datasource guide].
```

Make sure you have the application at hand working locally.

== Solution

We recommend to follow the instructions in the next sections and build the application step by step.

== Connecting to CloudSQL

Google CloudSQL managed service allows 4 kinds of connection :

. Using public IP
. Using private IP
. Using Cloud SQL Proxy
. Using service account

> The first two don't need anymore details, simply connect to you database following the link:datasource.adoc[datasource guide].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first two don't need anymore details, simply connect to your database following the link:datasource[datasource guide].
```

> The third allows you to connect as if locally, but is not available for AppEngine or CloudRun where you only deploy one artefact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The third allows you to connect as if locally, but is not available for AppEngine or CloudRun where you only deploy one artifact.
```

Please check link:https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres/external-connection-methods?hl=en[Connection options for external applications].

> This guide will help you through the fourth possibility : connecting using service account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will help you through the fourth possibility : connecting using a service account.
```

== Adding necessary dependencies to your application.

> You will need to add the _Cloud SQL Postgres Socket Factory_ and postgresql driver dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to add the _Cloud SQL Postgres Socket Factory_ and PostgreSQL driver dependencies.
```

With maven :
[source,xml, subs="attributes"]
----
<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.google.cloud.sql/postgres-socket-factory -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.google.cloud.sql</groupId>
    <artifactId>postgres-socket-factory</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.15</version>
</dependency>

> <!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.postgresql/postgresql -->

Reviewer: Could we point to the more standard https://search.maven.org/ (or remove the links altogether)?

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.postgresql</groupId>
    <artifactId>postgresql</artifactId>
    <version>42.2.8</version>
</dependency>
----

With Gradle :
[source,groovy, subs="attributes"]
----
// https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.google.cloud.sql/postgres-socket-factory
compile group: 'com.google.cloud.sql', name: 'postgres-socket-factory', version: '1.0.15'

> // https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.postgresql/postgresql

Reviewer: Same here.

compile group: 'org.postgresql', name: 'postgresql', version: '42.2.8'
----

== Configuring the CloudSQL instance

> If you haven't already please follow the link::https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres/create-instance[Creating instances guide].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you haven't already, please follow the https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres/create-instance[Creating instances guide].
```

Ensure you have a service account with _Cloud SQL Client_ role (minimum necessary role), and get your instance connection name (`PROJECT_ID:REGION:INSTANCE_ID`).

== Configuring the application

Configure your quarkus application as follows :

[source,properties]
--
quarkus.datasource.url=jdbc:postgresql:///${DB_NAME}?socketFactory=com.google.cloud.sql.postgres.SocketFactory&cloudSqlInstance=${CLOUD_SQL_INSTANCE}
quarkus.datasource.driver=org.postgresql.Driver
quarkus.datasource.username = ${DB_USER}

> quarkus.datasource.password = ${DB_PASSWORD}

Reviewer: It looks like you don't use the configuration properties you introduced in the extension? It is expected?

--

> Prefere the use of environment variables that will allow you to connect to all your env depending on your runtime values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prefere the use of environment variables that will allow you to connect to all your environment depending on your runtime values.
```

WARNING: Don't forget to add your service account key to the deployed image, and to accept requests on the expected port

[source,docker]
--
FROM gcr.io/distroless/java:11
COPY target/*.jar /app/application-runner.jar
COPY <your_service_account_key>.json /app
WORKDIR /app
CMD ["application-runner.jar","-Dquarkus.http.host=0.0.0.0", "-Dquarkus.http.port=$PORT"]
--

> NOTE: `$PORT` value will be injected automatically by CloudRun and is to be used for HealthCheck

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: `$PORT` value will be injected automatically by CloudRun and is to be used for HealthCheck.
```
